God announces two things once he three
things four things once he creates man
he
says man is to tend the garden that's
his
purpose why a garden it's a wall Garden
actually because that's what Paradise
means Walled Garden why a Walled Garden
well a garden is a place of nature
obviously and walls are a place of
culture and a Walled Garden is a place
of
nature encapsulated in a manageable
manner by the walls of culture that's
what your backyard is it's a yard it's
Nature has walls the walls are culture
the walls you could think of as
physical as physical entities as objects
but your your lawn has borders if you
don't have a fence and your neighbors
know where the borders are and where are
the borders well they're in the
imagination of your
neighbors I I'm I'm dead serious about
that the walls it's so funny cuz you'll
see people in the border between Canada
in the United States say they'll get out
and they'll step across the border it's
like as if it's an object of it as if
it's an entity that's there on the
ground and people know that that's magic
in some sense because the
grass in Canada is only slightly less
healthy than the grass in the United
States let's say
um it's easy to concretize that but the
the idea of a walled off space in a
communal Society is a social agreement
you have your domain your house your
your garden your backyard that's enough
Cosmos for you to set right and perhaps
if you're competent enough to do more
you'll expand your garden so that you
have more to tend but you start
with a Walled Garden of
some size and if you tend it properly
then the promise is that as your
competence grows so will your
Dominion man sent to tend the garden and
to name everything that's in it this is
Adam what does it what does that mean
well it's the logos again it's an
re-representation of the creative spirit
of God that makes itself manifest when
time begins and when new things come
into being our ability to name our
ability to speak is that in in in the
microcosmic manner that's what we're
capable of doing that's what the
patriarchal Spirit does is name and
order the
world and God brings everything to Adam
to see what he'll name them and that's
a reflection of the idea
that we have a created order but man has
a place in it and the place is to
organize it and to put everything in its
proper place and to assign it its
identity and that's no different than
the prioritization of attention that's
part of the
story name things in relationship to
their function put things in place in
relationship to their
significance in the hierarchy of being
Orient them Orient all named things up
upward
sequence
constrain organize and
order the manifestation of the
patriarchal Spirit what does God decide
that's not good
enough man lacks a helper man needs a
helper woman's created as a consequence
because the order that
men
produce because of their limitations
is insufficient and something has to be
introduced
to speak for that which is not
included that's the role of woman that's
the biblical role of the woman it's the
biological role of the mother you know
this in your own
household women bring the concerns of
the marginalized to the
center you can think about that
politically it's used ful to think about
it politically all established human
orders
exclude the exclusion causes pain the
pain of exclusion requires a
voice that's the voice of the Eternal
mother that's where Genesis 1
ends Genesis 2 begins contains the story
of Adam and Eve it's another creation
story it's
commensurate with the first one it's a
variation on a
theme God creates Adam out
of
matter Earth and breath Spirit why
because that's what human beings are
we're material creatures that are
animated Ana means
Spirit
we what's the
spirit the spirit is the living
organizing principle of the
material and human beings are an amalgam
of the living organizing principle and
the material and that's what's portrayed
in the creation of
Adam the combination of matter and
spirit the combination of ma material
and conscious you could think about it
that way if you're more secular-minded
we're conscious m
matter what's up with that no one
understands that no materialist
understands that we understand nothing
about Consciousness it's as mysterious
now as it's been throughout our the
entire course of our existence it's
never been reduced to a material
phenomena phenomenon we have no idea
what that would even mean and if we did
reduce it to the material all that would
mean was that we inadvertently elevated
the
material we treat our each other like
we're conscious
we presume from first principles that
we're conscious we can't even
distinguish between being itself and
being conscious and so that's a
perfectly reasonable representation of
man woman is taken from
man from a rib from the side as an
equal there's a critique of patriarchal
judeo-christian
narrative from the resentful feminist
side that makes the claim that the
biblical narrative is for example
radically patriarchal in its orientation
dooming women to
subjugation um that's a Preposterous
Claim by the way it's it's not only
false it's false in a very particular
way there are falsehoods that are
approximations of the
truth there are falsehoods so deep that
they're the exact opposite of the truth
and the truth of the matter is that
right from the first
words the biblical library is miraculous
in its in its insistence that women like
men are made in the image of God that
emerges in the first chapter and that
Eve is the equal of Adam in every
manner although complimentary and not
identical and our society is Riven by
conflict
so deep that we now doubt both of those
propositions there's no form of
confusion more profound than
that sexually reproducing creatures
without nervous systems can tell the
difference between male and female I I'm
dead serious about
[Applause]
that if you can get people to swallow
the lie that there's no difference
between men and women there is no lie
they won't swallow right
[Applause]
[Music]